>> Mike North: Next we're gonna take
the output of API Extractor and use it
to make some simple API documentation for
our models monorepo package.
This is quite simple.
We first need to install API Documenter
if it's not installed already.
Let's check, @microsoft/api-documenter.
And doing this within
the models package is right.
Great.
Dependency added.
Now I'm going to run pnpm
api-documenter markdown -i for
input temp -o for output docs.
So we're saying I wanna
invoke api-documenter.
I want my docs in markdown.
The other option here is a YAML file which
you can feed into other documentation
systems like docusaurus.
I've personally never figured out how
to do that, but it is just a matter of
aligning those two formats and
then pointing to this temp folder, right?
So if you customized where this
temp folder was being stored,
you would wanna keep that consistent.
And this by the way, is something
you don't want to commit to git.
So while we're saying that,
let's go to our gitignore.
Make sure we're ignoring that, temp save.
We wanna see that get grayed out, perfect.
And then the output folder is docs.
Let's let it run.
Great.
Deleted the old output from docs.
Well, none was there.
And then what was written was
a new seeds models package.
Look, a bunch of markdown files.
Let's look at our index.md in VS Code,
get rid of that.
You can see here how if we
had more than one library,
you could lump these things together and
you could have like all of the different
packages you might have in your monorepo.
And then clicking into one of those,
you can see.
All right, we've got like
a seed packet collection model.
There wasn't a lot of commenting here, but
this is all just coming from
code comments seed packet model.
Here are the different types and
the description.
This is all derived from comments and
type information.
So particularly if you're
using this mostly for
internal purposes,
it's kind of nice to have this in here.
You can browse this right within VS code.
You don't have to go to
some other docs website.
You don't have to switch out of this tool.
I really like the idea, particularly
if you're not making this a product and
you really care about the visual
appearance of the docs greatly.
These end up being just a very browseable
thing if there happen to be code.
Comments on things that
gets percolated through.
But mostly it's type information and
it does have a nice sort of multi
page structure where you could easily
track the changes to things over time.
So that's another aspect
I like about this.
If you check this into git,
this lets you look at the history of
these things over successive builds and
you can see them as almost
like a time machine of the surface
without having to worry about
the implementation and
refactoring within the methods.
It's a nice distilled piece
of information there.
So this is API Documenter.